I gave up on preparing for deadlines and started preparing papers in an ongoing basis. I watch for a deadline when I start to feel that the paper is ready to submit rather than the other way around. But, this is a work in progress... My publication output is suffering for sure. Maybe at some point it will level and balance. This is a very big shift in my habits so I am not sure how well I will succeed. The flip side is that if I don't succeed I will lose my mind with deadlines... And, I have to succeed with this method to publish QUALITY material to my standard instead of the deadline-oriented get-something-together-asap mentality (which I did for many years with my 60+ paper resume).


I think these deadlines work well the way they are.





I listed "A" for the CORE item because I attend the top conferences in my field.  But that is potentially an error.  I am in the social sciences (population, demography, sociology).  None of the top conferences in my area were listed on the information page.  
Worst aspect is the conference software system used for submission. That is where most of my problems occur














I learned early on that rushing to complete a research project in time to make a paper deadline can lead to poor outcomes, so I never make that mistake any more.  What I mostly struggle with now is getting the writing done on time, particularly when re-writing students' work.  It takes >3x longer to fix what a student has written than it would to write it myself and I keep forgetting that, leading to a situation where I end up editing until 3-4am before a 6am paper deadline and that's unhealthy, as well as being hard on the student.        With respect to any deadline, I think the important thing is for submitters to learn to plan ahead.  This means accurately estimating the time that will be needed to complete the task well and scheduling that time in during the weeks and months prior to the deadline.    The top conferences in my field have moved to a journal-conference hybrid model where submitters can either aim for the conference deadline or submit directly to the journal and then after the paper is accepted they can request to present it at the next annual conference.  This option is only for the best work (journal quality) but I think it works very well.  For the second-tier quality work (conference quality), there are fortunately usually multiple viable conference presentation options, so the problem with deadlines is mitigated somewhat.






As an interdisciplinary researcher, I submit manuscripts to journals (with no deadlines) as well as conference proceedings (with deadlines). My conversations with computer scientist collaborators usually pick a deadline in the next month and then decide to come up with something (no matter the merit) to submit to that deadline. My conversations with my other collaborators are about research, and once the research results are strong enough, then are they about publication venues. The latter way to do research produces more significant results that I'm much more proud of. The former/CS way to do research produces more short papers that I'm sometimes embarrassed are released onto the world.    In addition, my students learn much more from the revise and resubmit process. Conference rebuttal periods are not a good substitute for revisions. Furthermore, when manuscripts are submitted to different conferences later, the manuscripts don't change much (whereas in a revise and resubmit to a journal, they do change in order to address the comments of the reviewers).     Finally, because conferences in CS are primarily for being venues for terminal archival research reports, they lose the ability to do what a conference is ostensibly supposed to do - have productive conversations that move research frontiers forward. In the disciplines I participate in where publications only come out in journals, conferences have much smaller registration fees (often nearly free for students) and have first-come, first-served registration for talk and poster slots. Students get an equal opportunity at these slots as faculty to get feedback on their work (sometimes I see faculty presenting posters right next to students presenting posters). Students can talk about empirical results that they have not made sense of completely yet and get good insights from the rest of the research community without the worry of someone scooping them.    I think computer scientists feel that it is OK that they have cannibalized their conferences to use instead as publication venues because arXiv takes the place of advertising results early and getting feedback, but arXiv is not a conference venue.    Deadline-driven conference publications are broken and need to be abolished. They are antithetical to the mission of the academy.


















In most fields, conference papers are not as highly regarded as peer-reviewed journal papers, thus their importance is not significant






Conference papers are mostly written by my students so I don't feel too stressed about those deadlines




I have not seen true refereed conference proceedings papers yet. The 'reviews' are typically superficial at best. 











maybe try by invitation only, with quotas for underrepresented groups


none











Period deadlines, every two months or so would be great, instead of just one deadline per conference per year. Spacing out conference deadlines would also be great, as right now most of the deadlines in my field are concentrated around two periods in Spring. 























I am in a field where conference papers are nearly as relevant and important as journal papers.




I worked some tome ago in a psychology lab, our boss believed that people work best under stress, so maybe it is a good idea to have deadlines
n/a

This survey seems silly. I enjoy conference deadlines...much better than open submission journal 
I don't believe in "holding abstracts" and papers.  All the relevant work has to have been completed, the conference is purely opportunistic













Not all conferences cause the same level of stress.



Currently normal conference submissions have not been a terrible impediment to our work. We submit them when we are ready, and do the best we can. If accepted great, if not oh well, we will use it as the start of a paper for the next article. Where the difficulty comes is when i am invited to give a talk. The session does not always align well to what we are doing and i feel the need to tailor the talk to the session. This causes extra strain and stress. However, at a young stage in the career, turning down invitations is EXTREMELY hard to do as this gives you recognition and visibility across the field, at the cost of additional work/stress.





















Deadline pressure is not always a bad thing. It makes me and everyone I work with more productive.






Having had more time to prepare; avoiding disruptions; choosing the right conference
The rank question was stupid.  No idea what it means, and you would not allow me to leave it blank.  This means I had to randomly guess, which pollutes your data.


The conference I submit to range from A* to B in the ranking list given, and my work level/stress level also varies (much more for the A* conferences, less for the B ones).  I answered for the B ones since there are more submissions there in total.

