Most often, proposal deadlines are easily managed with proper planning and ongoing task monitoring. 
There is a lot of variability in the extent to which I work up to the deadline on proposals. Two of them I have submitted 15 minutes before the deadline. But most of them I submit at least a day before the deadline. I still experience significant stress leading up to submitting, even though it is a day or so "early." I think continuous submission (like standing review committee members get) would decrease the amount of stress associated with any particular time of year. Now that proposals are submitted and handled electronically, it seems like there might be less need to have a deadline three months in advance of review. However, people might submit fewer proposals if they did not have an external deadline to keep them accountable.

Advance thought processes, preparation will help. However, the stress of not having money in the bank to fund the lab is overwhelming... 


Interval deadlines could work. What interval would work best is a research question in its own right.




Although I have not experience it yet, I am favorable of the no deadline approach introduced by NSF in certain directorates/divisions.
The way the process works at my university I must arrange my schedule so I can give all of my time if needed to chase down glitches in the routing and submission process.  Personally, I prefer a couple of concentrated days of intense effort to a long drawn out process.

My proposals are mostly to a private donor, so probably my answers are not too relevant for this study.
Deadlines focus the mind
IMHO and experience, installing rolling deadlines will increase the quality of proposals and decrease the number of proposals.


The granting agencies keep changing formats, requirements, and online submission sites. Just keeping up with those is a job in itself.




I always have proposals ready weeks in advance, precisely to avoid the type of stress that I see in my colleagues as they prepare proposals.  I don't understand why they wait until the last minute.
Over the arc of my career, I have moved my work earlier and had less stressful submission days. Still, a non-responsive grants administrator, or a failing document/computer issue can cause calamity. I once had to fully rebuild a reference section 50 minutes before the deadline. . . this past year, I have had many more peaceful submission days.
Programmatic deadlines are rigid  even when the government shots down.  The wait for the review process is too long.
NSF's no-deadline system is great
I have been a faculty member for over 20 years.  I don't write very many proposals, but the ones I do write, I try to make them winners.  This requires getting started early (months ahead) and not leaving things for the last minute.  There are many times I've decided not to submit a proposal rather than try to rush it.  Annual deadlines make this an expensive choice, and I was very unhappy when my directorate at NSF moved from 2 submission opportunities/year to just 1.  Fortunately I have tenure, it's always possible to get 1-2 students who are funded via TAs or outside employment, and my job security doesn't depend on bringing in grant funding, so proposal-writing is not a major stressor in my life.




I cannot tolerate last minute changes.  If you plan the work, there is no need to stress at the last moment.  I do not work with last minute people.
I think all researchers meeting some simple fixed criteria should get a base level of funding to ensure productivity can remain high without losing time to large numbers of grant deadlines.
Not only do proposal deadlines give me more stress, but they lead to a majority of terrible proposals that I would have likely waited to submit (or not submitted at all). It is a lot of extra work for panelists and for me, but if I do not hit the proposal deadlines, I am viewed as deadweight by my academic unit. So I (and many around me) submit because that is what we are told we should do to maintain the prestige of the university.    I am an interdisciplinary researcher, and the projects I work on that are funded by divisions of NSF without proposals mature to a point where I am ready to ask for funding. At that point, I submit without being hassled by the research advancement staff. I might submit less proposals because of the less pressure, but I get more good work done.    On the other hand, if I'm awarded one of the worse proposals that I submit just because there is a deadline and I am expected to submit, then it is unlikely I will use the awarded funds for exactly what I proposed. So it is basically just institutionalized gambling - a bad proposal goes in, may get lucky enough to get funded, and then the funding agency is going to be lucky if the work that is completed has anything to do with the original proposal.    As a side note, the NSF CAREER needs to be abolished. It is a poor model for all other kinds of proposals someone will submit later in their career. Single-investigator grants (and papers) are so archaic. The CAREER process is not much worse than a normal grant, and so why not just devote the effort to a normal proposal (perhaps without the arbitrary deadline)? Furthermore, no other proposal requires silly things like letters of support from the department. These departmental letters are form letters that basically just advertise the standard concessions that a department gives its tenure-track faculty (which do not vary much across universities anyway). Why force a faculty member to jump through these extra hoops? If you really care about fostering leadership, then find a way for young investigators to lead multi-investigator grants and get help from more senior investigators who sign on as Co-I. The opportunity cost (in terms of time and money) of the CAREER program is far too high to justify it continue its existence. NSF got rid of the DDIG, which it should have kept, and kept the CAREER, which it should have gotten rid of.





Deadlines are easier for me to handle when I am the only PI. It stresses me far less, because I can work on my own pace. The moment I have Co-PI's it gets more chaotic, because I depend on the input from others, which I can't so easily control.    I submit proposals to two different NSF programs. One has deadlines, the other has no deadlines. At the program with deadlines I never got a proposal funded the first time. The other program (without deadline) funded my proposal after the first submission. This is not statistically solid, but I felt I submitted a much better prepared proposal when I had no deadline, because I waited until I found it was perfect.
The deadlines are less impactful compared to the shear number of proposals one has to submit.  In this respect, maybe providing much more time between FOA and deadline would help researchers manage deadlines more effectively.
It is more stressful on the days when I expect an answer to the proposal!

I prepare grants and submit them about six weeks before due 

It's all about planning.  I have a child with special needs.  I simply can't afford to do things at the last minute anymore because life is too unpredictable.  BUT convincing my collaborators to do things early is the biggest issue and stress...





The NSF is LYING about funding rates- the % success rate is likely 5% or less. I have already found that women win NSF grants at a rate 3X compared to men in our dept. The reviews are not based on the grants, rather personal relationships. You should research impact on health when reviews come back full of ad hominems.
Rolling submission deadlines are less disruptive or stress inducting than fixed date deadlines


Ever since graduate school, I've been taught not to rush for deadlines, and I try hard not to submit anything (including proposals) that are left to the last minute.



The day the proposal is due is not the worst, that's the end. The worst are the 2-3 preceding the deadline. If feels like there's a mountain to climb
Rolling deadlines is better for stress, but I am less likely to get them done that way.

Years ago, NSF didn't have fixed deadlines. The imposition of deadlines is for the benefit of the agencies, not the PIs. A significant amount of stress occurs in getting the budgets worked out in detail. And yet I've noticed most PIs in my NSF program get about the same amount. Besides, we have almost complete freedom to move money from one budget category to another. I think proposal budgets could be greatly simplified.

longer open period of submission (say 3 months-long) twice a year


i like proposal deadlines - it forces us to get organized.  my biggest issue is the slow response by my campus grants offices - i would not be submitting last minute but for them. i would like to see reduced paperwork/compliance/bureaocracy in the filing of the proposal - 

Impossible to prepare some proposals due to short deadlines and too many teaching or administrative commitments during some months of the year


I just can't seem to avoid pulling an all-nighter just before the proposal deadline.  I have too many other obligations (research, teaching, family) to get an early enough start, it seems.  And I am never satisfied that I have done my best on the proposal when the deadline comes.
The proposal process is way to complicated.  I think everyone spends a tremendous amount of energy and time on a bet that they might get some funding.  This is stressful.  Make the entire process much more straightforward and easy to complete.  Make the reward worth the effort.

Deadlines at the beginning or end of a typical semester are quite stressful.  Summer deadlines are best.
Asking minorities and menstruators to submit proposals is only perpetuating white supremacy and systemic patriarchy. They should just be given grants whenever they say they need it.
I use my own internal deadlines, which typically are at least a week before the actual deadline.  I don't have a problem with deadlines, I just plan for them.

Concerns about the proposal format meeting the requirement of funding agency; Pressure from the last-minute items required for the proposal submission.






Expansion of ancillary information that needs to follow highly constraint formats.    Formatting should not be an issue since boiler plate information should be formatted during the uploading process, and necessary missing information can be prompted.
I am literally procraastinating on my NSF due in just a few days right now. And I am stressed to hell. The rpject is close to ready but one million little things need wrapping up, I;m losing sleep and going kind of crazy and my partner can't make jokes due to my mood. 
My NSF directorate (DEB) has gotten rid of deadlines, but I still have had USDA fixed deadlines this past year.

I only get stressed if I don't have the whole proposal drafted a week before the deadline so that I have time to edit
Having deadlines repeating every month or two would be beneficial, instead of just one deadline per year. 

My only problem is that the actual submission of the proposal is out of my direct control and most of the stress involved comes from prompting our sponsored research office to submit.  Having PI ability to submit would make submitting proposals less stressful.


Your survey was comprehensive




Amount of wasted time worrying about silly things like budget and overhead rates when they have little to nothing to do with the chances of the grant getting funded. Also, navigating the red tape.

Frustration and anxiety resulting from collaborators who do not respect deadlines and do not put in the effort needed on their part, which increases my workload.

I submit more proposals to programs with deadlines than those without. 


I start preparing my proposals well in advance of a deadline (> 6 months), because I don't want to increase my stress level and my work load. It much easier to spread things over 6 months. Two months before the deadline my proposal is fully ready, and all I do is tweak things a little before submitting, and submit it a week before the deadline. My strategy of eliminating deadline stress is to act as if the deadline is two months earlier than it actually is.



1/ How much support I get from the department (peers, senior professors, staff). In my case, ZERO.   2/ Whether I *need* the external funding to do good research. In my case (pure math), I do NOT need the external funding, but I feel pressured to apply for grants to meet quota.
I like the no deadline system, in some NSF programs now. It helps with the reviewer overload, which is an important consideration. Deadlines seem to incentivize people to submit proposals even when they have nothing good to submit. 

To succeed in acquiring funding, I need to spend more time writing proposals than actually doing research or writing papers. The current extreme level of funding competition creates huge waste.


Perhaps the sort of rolling submission that NIH study section members enjoy - they can submit at any time. Actually, I think deadlines can be helpful, but the problem is with only 2-3 per year, they sometimes do not fall at a good time with respect to workload. quarterly or more frequent submission deadlines would help from the PI perspective, but not so practical from agency perspective.
I wrote that day of and leading up to proposal I did "administration" and research, but I was referring specially to the micromanaging of our grants office administrator. We do not have a dedicated grants person in our department, and we have to rely on University-wide administrators. They are kind, and hard working, but they have yet to help me submit a proposal in 5 years where I have not found an error on their part of the process in terms of filling out the forms for grant proposals related to institution, forgetting University documents, or uploading for an incorrect PAR number. I would say this contributes to the most stress for me when submitting proposals, because in addition to proofreading and triple checking my own parts related to the science, I also have to spend time quality control checking all of their tasks to catch their errors before submission.
No ideas
n/a

Proposals and managed through univ admin, so I have to get things done early.

The deadlines do not match the requirements at our institution. We have to prepare everything at least a week before submission, The pressure periods are severe for the internal deadlines. 




It is completely impossible to write proposals during COVID lockdown with no child care.  Since daycare stopped I have submitted zero proposals. 



Without deadlines it's easier to let things slip
experimental particle physics is unusual in that we have very long author lists (and anomalously large h-indices as a results), and can only really apply to 2 sources of funding, the NSF and the DOE.  We generally apply in groups, so the work is shared.  The net result is that, happily, grant proposals are a small part of our work.

I actually like deadlines, because they require me to spend focused time on a proposal. I have tried starting proposals earlier, and I tend to still work on them until the deadline, so I stopped starting too early to allow me to be more efficient. Large proposals with multiple PIs are far more stressful than proposals with just me or with one another PI.
I do not think proposal deadlines are the problem.  In fact, with no deadlines I would submit fewer proposals, because I will never be satisfied of what I wrote.
The most stressful part is the necessary reliance on other people. For example, will the research administration people get their budgets and paperwork done in time? I often have to remind them multiple times. Will my co-PIs get their parts done in time?
One of the stressful components associated with the proposal preparation is a steady increase in number of required supporting documents aggravated by a frequent change in preparation requirements. Many of these docs have little to no value, just a typical way who bureaucracy demonstrates that they do something.  NSF is particularly bad in this aspect. The preparation of all these docs now takes more time than the preparation of  the proposal itself.

Although stressful, proposal deadlines force us to put a timeline with a HARD immovable target date. This requires us to compile many of our ideas and hone them into a good story. As it has currently stood, much of the "prior research" for proposals has been completed within the ~1month before the deadline. Some of this is due to waiting for calls to identify topics, forming teams, etc., but also due to prioritization. We are so focused on meeting our existing deadlines for FUNDED programs that we cannot devote the time to exploring the NEW ideas/concepts until we have no other choice. This leads to a constantly high stress level. Although you can get things done, you never have enough time to get ahead, to think creatively, and truly explore limits. It is simply chasing one deadline to the next.    I am not sure replacing deadlines is a good thing. They are stressful but they are very helpful to force you to submit your idea.



Deadlines provide external accountability to submit despite the added pressure to meet them.  The removal of deadlines by NSF has reduced the urgency and requires more self-discipline.



Please note that I am taking this survey after a big deadline for proposal to an experimental facilty (August 3). Last week some of my answers would've been different.
2 kids and dog, can't do anything at last minute , everything has to be done in small chunks over time 



Rolling deadlines would be helpful as is the case for many areas covered by NSF. 
I don't find the deadlines stressful except for the inevitable bureaucratic nonsense (either from my university or the every-changing whims of the funders). The other parts are fairly straightforward.
Deadlines are helpful, but they are very problematic when there is too much time between them.  It would be great if each call for proposals would review proposals in batches, perhaps once each quarter.   
Proposal deadlines are not the problem.  The problem is an unhealthy work culture in the scientific enterprise as a whole.  Replacing proposal deadlines with some other mechanism may have little to no effect on this overarching culture.
NSF is currently working on a no-deadline model; I don't yet know whether you will ask about this. It's a double-edged sword, and I think an effective way to reduce the number of submissions.  It does not mean I'm less stressed, however - the stress is more internalized and goes on for longer.  It's still far better than that pre-proposal model, however!!!
My reactions and stress have changed significantly over my 4 years as assistant professor with no grants funded.  My stress and work distribution is completely different now, also because my teaching preparation workload is manageable compared with in the first two years when I had to develop the classes.  I think rolling deadlines are the best for you and also for the university grant administrators to pay the most attention to your proposal.  Those of us applying constantly to multiple agencies already have the burden spread.  That is probably most researchers now.
All ideas, writing, reading basically are done by myself. Reducing the amount of time doing compliance busy  work  would be helpful. Sending in a proposal without a deadline would be very helpful.


It feels like sending ideas into a void for a long time. It would be much better to present proposals in the form of presentations to program officers and to be able to answer questions.



I'd like to see rolling deadlines. 
I typically submit my grant proposals a week or more ahead of the deadline in order to successfully work with our admin teams that ultimately submit the paperwork. I also let these teams know that I am planning a submission at least 3 months in advance. I find that this helps ease a lot of stress and has extremely beneficial effects on my relationships with admin personnel.
The deadline serves the purpose that I have no objection to keep.
Wishing I had had more time; more prior work; more familiarity with the landscape of the funding process


Frustration with associates not doing their part or doing it well, requiring rewriting.
Honestly, my work on proposals probably looks similar to an exponential growth model, so even though I start 2 months ahead, the large bulk of work is done in the last week.  I know this is not ideal, and better time management might fix it, but I haven't managed to fix it in 20 years.

